13 May 2016

To NCRA Members :

NCRA has received an alarming email from a resident in Bexleyheath drawing our attention to Bexley Council allowing investors to convert private residential properties into Hostels (HMO - homes of multiple occupancy) purely for profit.

Investors are buying mainly two/three bedroom properties and converting them into 6 very small bedsits with one shared Kitchen.

A three bedroom house rented to a family could earn the landlord around £1,400 /month but if converted to an HMO, renting to six single persons, the landlord would earn around £3,000 /month. .

Some of these properties are then being rented back to other London Boroughs to house their homeless, which could include ex-offenders, drug addicts, alcoholics or even paedophiles. Neighbours are totally unaware of what is about to happen until the 6 residents move in.

We are advised that there are over 100 such private houses being converted into Hostels at this time.

Bexley Borough have been targeted by investors because unlike neighbouring Bromley along with 19 out of 33 other London Boroughs, Bexley has not applied for an Article 4 Directive to safe guard its residents.

An Article 4 would hopefully deter investors as they would have to apply for planning permission for an HMO with over 3 occupants. It would therefore be a longer process with no certainty of getting planning permission.

If you feel that Bexley Council should apply for an Article 4 Directive and would like to sign a petition requesting that they do so, please log on to the [change.org](http://www.change.org) website and under search, type in 'NO TO HMO'. This will link to a page with 'Bexley Borough - Say NO TO HMO/Hostels' where you will be able sign the petition.
