11 March 2016 To NCRA Members :

Bexley have issued the following News Release today :

BEXLEY VILLAGE BRIDGE WORKS PROGRESS

The Bexley Village bridge works originally planned to end in July will finish one month ahead of schedule in June 2016.

Unfortunately the bridge will remain closed at the Old Mill site for up to four more weeks than planned with the road unlikely to re-open until late April. The unavoidable delay in re-opening the road is due to complications with the original foundations of the old bridge, the need to pile the new foundations to a depth of 20 metres, and complexities around temporarily diverting a large Thames Water sewer pipe which was an integral part of the old bridge structure.

Bexley Village will continue to be open for business as usual throughout the road closure and the Council remains in close contact with those businesses directly affected. In response to concerns raised Bexley Village car park charges have been frozen until August. All businesses can still be accessed via alternative traffic routes.

Good progress is being made and works that were originally planned to take place during the final stage of the bridge replacement, are to be brought forward, making it possible to finish earlier than expected.

Traffic will continue to be diverted via the A2. The northbound diversion will be via Vicarage Road, Dartford Road, Old Bexley Lane, the A2 and Bourne Road. The southbound diversion will be via Bourne Road, the A2, Old Bexley Lane, Dartford Road and Vicarage Road. The road will re-open to southbound traffic only towards the end of April. Northbound traffic will continue to be diverted until the work finishes in June 2016.

The Bexley Village bridge dates back to the 1870s and successive surveys over several years have shown that it is getting weaker. If no action was taken the bridge could become unsafe.

Pedestrian access will be maintained during the road closure via a temporary footbridge which has been constructed across the River Cray at the Old Mill Lane site.

During the road closure the 492, 601 and B12 bus routes will be diverted and the bus stops in use will change. Those who normally travel to Bexley Village on bus routes 492, 601 and B12 will need to change to route 132 or 229 at bus stops E and F on Gravel Hill during the road closure. There will be a temporary school crossing patrol available to help students cross between these bus stops on Gravel Hill at peak school journey times in the morning and evening.

To plan your journey use the Transport for London Journey Planner at [www.tfl.gov.uk](http://www.tfl.gov.uk)

Bexley apologises for any inconvenience caused during these essential bridge works.

For more information on the works including the bus route diversions go to

[www.bexley.gov.uk/bexleyhighstreetbridgep2](http://www.bexley.gov.uk/bexleyhighstreetbridgep2)

or

e-mail bridges@bexley.gov.uk
