20 September 2016

(1) Large Fight in Bexley - Appeal for Information

Officers are appealing for information following a large scale fight in Bexley involving more than 100 youths.

Police were called to Northumberland Heath, Bexley, at approximately 17:40hrs on 19 September, following reports of a large fight between a group of youths.

Just before the fight in Northumberland Heath, there was a disturbance between a group of youths in Bexleyheath Broadway at approximately 16:30hrs. Police dispersed group of youths who they believe may have been involved in the fight in Northumberland Heath later on.

Witnesses or anyone with information are asked to call Bexley police on 0208 284 9146, the police non-emergency line on 101 or Crimestoppers anonymously 0800 555 111.

---

(2) New phishing email

There is a phishing email currently in circulation that claims to be from the City of London Police. The departments that it claims to represent include the 'Fraud Intelligence Unit' and the 'National Fraud Intelligence Bureau'. The email is titled 'compensation fund' and has a letter attachment that claims to be offering financial compensation to victims of fraud. The letter uses the City of London Police logo.

The letter states that in order for compensation to be arranged, the receiver of the email should reply disclosing personal information. It states that HSBC and the South African Reserve Bank have been chosen to handle the compensation claims. All of these claims are false.

The email and letter are fraudulent and should not be replied to.
