| Subject: NCRA Newsmail                                        |
| :------------------------------------------------------------ |
| From: NCRA_Newsmail <NCRA_Newsmail@northcrayresidents.org.uk> |
| Date: Fri, 20 Nov 2015 17:48:36 +0000                         |

To: ncra_members@northcrayresidents.org.uk To NCRA Members :

Introducing NewsMail

The NCRA website has now been up and running for a little over six years. During this time we have tried to provide informative and interesting content. More recently we have introduced the ‘GroupMail’ service to alert members to any significant issues that could affect them or where member’s input would help the NCRA with planning or other similar issues.

Realising that many of our members lead very busy lives and do not always have time to check our website for updates, we have decided to start a similar service ‘NewsMail’ which will include all of the more general, non-urgent news items from the web site including planning applications and outcomes and reserve the GroupMail service for urgent alerts.

We hope that you will find the NewsMail service useful, but if you would prefer to keep your inbox free from non-urgent issues, please let us know via the committee email address and we will send you GroupMail alerts only.

---

Message from Tina Hewitt.

The year has flown by and Christmas is upon us and so is change once more. The Ven. Dr. Paul Wright, Archdeacon of Bromley and Bexley, has informed the PCC of St James Church that from the new year it will be sharing a priest with St Barnabas, Joydens Wood and not All Saints, Foots Cray, although Fr. Paul Keown will remain Priest-in-Charge until the United Benefice is split a way down the line and will still have ministry responsibility for All Saints.

The new Parish Priest will be the Rev. Ren Harding and I am sure that you all join me in welcoming her to the parish.

The Christmas Services are already planned as listed below, but from January the service times will in all likelihood be earlier, between 9.00am and 9.30am on a Sunday. But as things are still being discussed I would keep an eye out towards the end of the year for confirmation.

| 29th November | Licensing Service for Rev. Ren Harding at 3.00pm         |
| :------------ | :------------------------------------------------------- |
| 6th December  | Parish Eucharist at 11.15am                              |
| 13th December | Family Eucharist, Christingle and Toy Service at 10.30am |
| 20th December | Parish Eucharist at 11.15am                              |
| 20th December | joint service at St James, Carol Service at 4.00pm       |
| 24th December | Crib Service at 5.30pm                                   |
| 24th December | joint service at All Saints, Midnight Mass at 11.30pm    |
| 25thDecember  | joint service at St James, Parish Eucharist at 11.15am   |
| 27thDecember  | joint service at All Saints, Parish Eucharist at 9.30am  |

On behalf of myself, the PCC and the congregation of St James Church I would like to wish all of the North Cray Residents a happy Christmas and a prosperous and peaceful New Year.

And I hope we will get a chance to see you at some of these special, seasonal services.

Kind regards

Tina Hewett

Churchwarden of St James Church, North Cray

---

As some of you may be aware, there has been a considerable amount of groundwork carried out at Honeydale Farm in preparation for the erection of the planned polytunnels. This work continued almost to midnight on many occasions, as well as Saturdays and Sundays. The noise from the excavation was very disturbing and annoying to residents close to the farm.

Following a complaint to Bexley's Environment Protection Officer, the farm's representatives apologised for this noise and agreed to adhere to strict working hours i.e

Monday to Friday 8am - 6pm

Saturdays 8am - 1pm

Sundays and Bank Holidays NO WORKING

However within a few days, this undertaking was promptly ignored and work continued beyond the agreed hours, including Sunday working. This was reported to the Environment Protection officer again, but despite his promise to escalate this with his manager and the farm, nothing appeared to have been done. The work simply continued. Although this phase of construction has now finished, it doesn't bode well for the next phases.

Residents affected by noise from this site should continue to report any re-occurrence to the Environment Protection Officer at Bexley. (Stephen Croft : Email[Stephen.Croft@bexley.gov.uk](mailto:Stephen.Croft@bexley.gov.uk). Direct phone 0203 045 5647). Although the actions from the council were not particularly effective on this occasion, if enough people complain then some real enforcement of regulations may actually happen.

4

| Contact : [committee@northcrayresidents.org.uk](mailto:committee@northcrayresidents.org.uk) %br% | Website : [http://www.northcrayresidents.org.uk](http://www.northcrayresidents.org.uk) %br% |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
