2 December 2016

(1) A further warning to Cat Owners.

On 27 October we reported a recent spate of attacks on cats and that there had been an attack on an ex member's cat in West Kingsdown. We have now had a report of another cat being killed and mutilated in Orpington.

South Norwood Animal Rescue and Liberty have sent the following advice :

a. Upon finding any mutilated animals, foxes have also been found, we must not remove it without informing SNARL, The Police or the RSPCA. Nearly all the victims are usually left on footpaths, pavements and even owners gardens as some kind of display of the killers handy work. (The one in Orpington was left on a pathway that the local children use to get to school).

b. Instead of removing it we must cover it up and if possible wait until the organisations attend.

c. You can call SNARL on 07961 030064 or 07957 830 490, Operation Takahe on 0208 649 0216, Police 101, RSPCA on 0300 123 4999 or Crime Stoppers on 0800 555 111. If you can get any kind of information it will be a great help to catch the killer.

d. If this happens in your park or green space please inform your local Neighbourhood Policing Team straight away.

e. The following [POSTER](http://www.northcrayresidents.org.uk/posters/poster71.pdf) gives further information.

---

(2) Another Scam

A News Alert from Bexley issued today tells hao a Bexley resident received a call from someone falsely claiming to be from the Council asking for £25 for an overweight bin.

Bexley advise that this is a scam and that Council officers would not call residents and ask for payment or any other personal information over the phone. When visiting in person they would always provide valid identification.

If you are in any doubt about someone who calls by phone or in person and claims to be from the Council please call them on 020 8303 7777 to check their ID.

If you need more information or know someone who you feel is at risk from being scammed, you can contact Citizens Advice consumer services on 03454 04 05 06
