2 September 2017

BETTY RHODES

Our thanks to Sylvia Malt of the Bexley Civic Society's planning & conservation committee for the following information:-

It is with sadness that we have to report the recent death of Betty Rhodes. Betty was 96 years of age and throughout her long life was always an active campaigner, especially concerning matters of conservation and the protection of the Green Belt, and it is due to her efforts over the years that our part of the Green Belt suffered no major loss.

Betty always believed that conservation was very important and was one of the founder members of the Bexley Civic Society as well as a valued member of the Council's former Conservation Advisory Committee.

Betty represented her local area as a Local Authority Councillor and first became a School Governor in 1963. Her eventual length of service totaled an incredible 45 years. She was a Governor and then Chair of Governors of North Cray Junior School.

It is certainly true that Betty made an impact on the local community and that she worked very hard to rectify any injustices she encountered, especially in her beloved North Cray and Footscray.

Betty was always an active and dedicated member of the North Cray Residents Association and, together with the late Nell Berwick, she ran the successful Bedensfield Residents Association, during which time she was also a member of the Federation of Bexley Residents Associations and a tenant/representative on the London & Quadrant Housing Association.

NCRA Members can obtain details of the date etc of Betty's farewell from The Committee.

The family have requested no flowers. However, donations in Betty's memory can be made to Christian Aid.
