24 May 2017

Bikers on the Meadows.

Thanks to Steve Brown for the following message in response to the request from PCSO Pauline Cimen for information about people fishing in the meadows.

It is all very well telling us to contact the Police but HOW? We had bikes on the Meadows all Sunday afternoon and Monday evening and most of the afternoon and we try to contact the Police using 101 and you never get to speak to anyone.

Last night there were two bikes running around while we were working with the Scouts and Beavers. It was quite dangerous and the crowd of people who were with the bikers were aggressive and threatening.

So you tell us how we contact the police urgently and we will tell you about fishing and biker threats.

The request for information regarding people fishing in the meadows came from the Safer Neighbourhood Team and NCRA was simply passing this message on, unedited, to our members.

Whilst we are happy to forward reports of illegal activity from members to the Safer Neighbourhood Team, we much prefer members to deal with the police directly .

Steves frustration in not being able to get a response from the 101 Police number is understandable, but is quite outside the NCRA's area of responsibility.

In view of Steve's comment that

It was quite dangerous and the crowd of people who were with the bikers were aggressive and threatening. '

it probably would have been reasonable in this instance to dial 999, particularly as young people (Scouts and Beavers) were potentially at risk.
