22 June 2017

(1) Neighbourhood Watch Update

Thanks to PCSO Pauline Cimen for the following :

Theft of Motor Vehicle in Maddocks Close Sidcup, between 13th and 14th June 2017, 2100 hrs-1015 hrs. The vehicle was later recovered.

Theft of Pedal Cycle also in Maddocks Close Sidcup between 12th and 13th June 2017, 2100-1836 hrs.

Reports of off road motor bikes racing around the Foots Cray Meadows are still causing problems to those using the Meadows.

Please report this to your local policing team or on 101 number if you witness any Anti Social Behaviour.

Due to the hot weather we are having at the moment and the fact that doors and windows are more likely to be left open, please make sure these are securely shut/locked when you venture out.

Please also check your car is securely locked (even if on the drive) and do not leave any items visible inside the car.

(2) Bikes in the Meadows

Thanks to Leigh Harris for sending the contents of a reply that he recived in response to his email to the Met Police :

Thanks for your email. We can issue a section 59 warning and take the bike but we have to see them and catch them ourselves which is not easy as the meadows is so vast plus we are on foot.

If I can see who they are I may know them and may know where they reside so would visit their home address.

I managed to locate one who has been spoken to. He said he was not aware you could not ride bikes in meadows. He is fully aware now and is now going elsewhere.

Leigh goes on to say :

So best bet is to let police know where bikers live or help them narrow down that area (where they exit the meadow perhaps) or get information on the bikes or riders to them.

This is section 59:

[http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2002/30/section/59](http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2002/30/section/59)

Wonder what the Council's take is on the motorbikes in meadow? If noone knows I will try to contact them. If the Council are not responsive I will arrange to put up some signs anyway.

Motorbikes were back over the weekend and Monday and Tuesday this week so far.

Comment from NCRA Chairman, David Cook :

The advice from the Police can be summarised as :

1. The Police can take action against the bikers

2. They need identification proof in order to take such action.

3. The Police may well already know the offenders, so use smartphones to take pictures/video to aid identification and show proof of the offence.

4. If you know who the offenders are, send details (names and/or addresses) to :

Cray Meadows SNT

Marlow House

109 Station Road

Sidcup [CrayMeadows.snt@met.pnn.police.uk](mailto:CrayMeadows.snt@met.pnn.police.uk)
