4 January 2018

Bexley Village Road Closures

NCRA has received the following information regarding Bexley Village:

(1) Network Rail have erected two way signals at the railway bridge on Bexley High Street following a piece of masonry falling from the bridge. We understand that there is a concern about the integrity of the structure.

Network Rail say that they will be working 24 hours until the problem is resolved but can give no time frame for completion.

Congestion is very heavy in this area, and in the rush hour will be worse.

(2) Works to install a gas connection to the Post Office will start on 8 January. A new superfast broadband BT cabinet will be installed at the same time along with carriageway improvement works.

Completion of the work is expected to take until 15th January and Bexley hope that doing all three jobs at the same time will cut the overall time by half.

A one-way traffic system will be in place in Bexley Village for the duration. Bourne Road will remain open to Southbound traffic between the Post Office building and the roundabout. Northbound traffic to Bexleyheath will be diverted through Bexley High Street, Parkhill Road and Thanet Road. There are advance warning signs in place.

A statement from Cabinet Member for Traffic and Transport, Cllr Alex Sawyer is as follows :

'We know that road works are a pain for everyone and we try and work with the utilities to minimise disruption to residents and road users whenever we can. It is never easy to deal with, but I hope that by letting residents, businesses and visitors know of possible disruption in advance they can plan their journey in good time.'
