10 October 2018

THEN & NOW A series of past and present photographs of North Cray

In 2011 Denise Baldwin of the Lamorbey and Sidcup Local History Society kindly lent us for copying the slides of the many scenes of North Cray photographed by Phyllis and Philip Verdun Nash from the late 1970s. They lived in The Grove, and Philip was a staunch supporter of North Cray and our Association, being appointed our Ward Councillor in 1948 at the age of 32 and, in the 1970s, serving as Chairman of our Association. He died in 1996.

Our proposed new series, Then & Now, will be largely based on the photographs taken of North Cray by Phyllis and Philip some 40 years ago, and brought up to date by photographs of the same scene taken by our Secretary Jean Gammons and Treasurer Chris Moon.

No attempt will be made to express an opinion on whether or not the changes were an improvement in the street scene. Beauty is in the eye of the beholder!

Meanwhile, we appeal to members to send us any old photographs they might have of North Cray, giving the pictures's location and date and, ideally, with a photograph of the same scene today.

Phyllis and Philip did a wonderful thing by producing a photographic record of North Cray as it was some 40 years ago. How good it would be if we had a Volunteer/s to undertake similar photographic surveys say every 5-10 years. Things change so quickly, and not always for the better.

The 'THEN and NOW' web page has been launched with a small selection of photographs, and will be updated over the coming weeks.

[Then and Now](http://www.northcrayresidents.org.uk/then_now.html)
