4 September 2018

PLACES TO VISIT Part 9 - Bewl Water

Thanks to Jean Gammons and Chris Moon who each submitted an article on Bewl Water for this series. The following is a combination of these two articles :

As the largest reservoir in the south east of England holding over 31,000 million litres of water, enough for 200 million people, Bewl Water is the largest stretch of open water in the South East.

The 800 acre site is set in an Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty, in the heart of the High Weald, Situated near the picturesque town of Lamberhurst and the beautiful Scotney Castle, and within an hour's drive of Tunbridge Wells, Hastings, Tonbridge, Maidstone, Ashford, Eastbourne and Sevenoaks via the adjacent A21.

Open all year, a visit to this stunning lake makes for a great day out on the Kent and Sussex border and is fantastic family fun and also great value.

If you are looking for healthy outdoor activity for all ages and abilities, Bewl Water offers a fantastic range of leisure and recreational pursuits, both on and around the reservoir. These include fishing and, cycling (you can hire bicycles or bring your own). Boating activities include sailing, paddle boarding, wind surfing, pedalos, rowing boats and canoing,

There is a well sign posted walk around the reservoir and if you do not fancy the full 12.5 mile route you can get a water taxi back from 5 locations.

The visitors centre has a conference venue, restaurant and cafe on the shoreline.

Parking at Bewl Water costs just £3 per car for the entire day.

Gates open at 8am and close 30 minutes before sunset. [More Information](http://www.bewlwater.co.uk)
