24 April 2019

Ward Update

Thanks to PC Sophie Scott from St Mary's & St James' Safer Neighbourhood Team for sending this Ward Update.

Hello Everyone,

I hope you had a lovely Easter weekend. I have some more news to update you with since my last email on 06/04/2019. The last few weeks have been a busy few weeks for us on the team.

CARD FRAUD

Firstly an update on the cash machine fraud in Bexley High Street. As you know PC Peter Rose and myself did some plain clothed work a few weeks ago in the village and managed to arrest one of the suspects placing the devices on the machine and he has since been deported back to Sri Lanka. Peter and I then continued with some enquiries and managed to identify the second suspect.

On Wednesday 17th April we arrested the second suspect for fraud offences. He has been interviewed and is currently released under investigation while we await forensic testing of the devices and also conduct other procedures. Hopefully we will be able to get him charged for these offences. I will keep you updated with this.

We have also been in touch with Barclays Bank who own the cash machine at NISA and they have stated that they are looking to change the machine or place card protection devices on the existing machine to prevent this from happening again.

I am pleased to say that we have not had any more reports of fraudulent activity at this cash machine or anywhere else on the ward since the first suspect was arrested earlier this month.

PHONE THEFTS

We have also been speaking to businesses on the ward regarding reports of males and females entering business premises, creating a small disturbance or commotion and then stealing phones belonging to staff members that are left laying on desks or work counters within the shop. This also applies to customers, for example, when visiting the hairdressers/barbers please make sure you do not leave any valuables unattended. There are varying descriptions of the suspects, they have been described as being of Romanian origin, Spanish origin & also mixed race.

OTHER INCIDENTS

On Saturday 13th April we were called to an address in Ellenborough Road due to a male threatening residents and attempting to force his way in to a house. He is alleged to have had a knife or some form of weapon. This male was detained & searched. His car which was also parked nearby was located and searched and found to have a baseball bat hidden in the boot. He was arrested for affray, violence to secure entry and also for possession of an offensive weapon.

He has also been released under investigation while we continue with our enquiries and gathering statements and other evidence.

On Friday 19th April in Ellenborough Road there was an altercation between a group of males resulting in one receiving a bite mark to his arm and a stab wound. His injuries were not life threatening or life changing and it is thought the males were known to each other rather than it being a random attack. CID are currently investigating the matter.

BURGLARY

There have been no residential burglaries on the ward. However, on 16/04/2019 at about 0400 hours there was a commercial burglary at the dry cleaners, Bexley Village where the suspect kicked the front door open and stole £50 cash from the till and also an attempted commercial burglary at The Costcutter where the suspect has been seen on CCTV to use a crow bar to try and force up the shutter but was unsuccessful. Due to the same date and time frame it is thought the same suspect is responsible for both. An officer from the borough response team is investigating.

VEHICLE CRIME

We are still continuing to get reports of tools being stolen from vans around the ward. This is not specific to car parks. Vans parked in residential streets are also being targeted. It is a crime that is prevalent across London and the counties. Please consider fitting your van with deadlocks, slam locks or armaplate locks. Unfortunately it is proving difficult to catch the thieves as they use various cars on false plates and it takes 5 minutes for them to pull up, smash the window and open the doors or in some cases drill the lock out on the rear doors.

On 11/04/2019 at 1225 hours a VW Transporter van was seen to pull in to the car park at Dartfordians & stole tools from a car and attempted to break in to two more vans.

On 23/04/2019 at approximately 1315 hours a van was broken in to on Wansunt Road and tools were stolen. The suspects made off in a white AUDI (registration LY10FYE - false plates).

On 24/04/2019 between 0000 & 0030 hours a 59 plate black Land Rover Discovery was stolen from outside the owners address on North Cray Road.

Kind Regards

PC Sophie Scott

4491SE

DWO - St Mary's & St James' Safer Neighbourhood Team

Marlowe House

Sidcup

0208 721 2816
