14 March 2019

St Mary's and St James Ward - ward information

Thanks to PC Sophie Scott, DWO - St Mary's & St James' Safer Neighbourhood Team for the following message :

Hello Everyone,

Apologies for the recent lack of emails being sent out. PCSO Angel who used to send them out is currently on maternity leave and will be away for some time now. We have also had some recent changes of staff within the team. Some of you may have already met PCSO Dee. PC Mark Smith has now left us to go and work in Belverdere and I, PC Sophie Scott, have joined the team this week, having previously worked on Longlands SNT.

At this time there are no plans for any further staff changes so I am looking forward to meeting the residents of St Mary's & St James' and I will be sending out the emails for the forseeable future.

As some of you may be aware we have busy over the past few weekends visiting residents on the ward & giving out smart water. Unfortunately this will not be given out across the whole ward as MetTrace, the people that run the smart water initiaitive, give us designated roads which unfortunately we cannot deviate from. These roads are Balwyns Park, Tile Kiln Lane, Dartford Road, Monterey Close, Cold Blow Crescent, The Firs, Mornington Court, Fraser Road, Heath Road, St Mary's Road, Ridgecroft Close, Hill Crescent, Nutmead Road, Duke's Orchard, Ashcroft Close, Vicarage Road, Manor Road & Wansunt Road.

If you are not a resident of these roads you can go online and buy smart water. If your road has a Neighbourhood Watch Scheme then you will be able to get the smart water kits at a discounted price.

Noteable crimes on the ward this week are as follows....

Burglary - On 07/03/2019 between 1300 hours & 2050 hours a house on North Cray Road was burgled. The suspects have gained access to the rear garden & smashed the glass in the patio door to get in to the property. An untidy search was conducted in the house, mainly upstairs. several pairs of sunglasses, a large amount of jewellery, a watch and some cash (both english & foreign) were stolen. Neighbour enquiries have been completed - no suspects were seen, however one house does have CCTV which will be viewed in the coming days.

The house did not have a burglar alarm and had been left in darkness.

Vehicle crime - On 06/03/2019 between 0800 & 1600 hours a van was broken in to while parked in the car park on Thanet Road. £1800 worth of tools were stolen.

Between 1930 hours on 07/03/2019 & 0730 hours on 08/03/2019 a van was broken in to while parked in the car park at Holiday Inn. Again tools were stolen.

The team will be holding two crime prevention events at the Holiday Inn, Black Prince Interchange where we will be joined by representatives from smart water, AA - handing out anti theft number plate screws and also victim support who will be promoting the Bobby Van project which advises and provides home security improvements for elderly and vulnerable residents who have previously been victims of crime.

The events will be held on Tuesday 26th March 2019 12:30pm - 6:30pm and Saturday 30th March 2019 10:30am - 4:30pm.

Lastly we are now up and running on Facebook (St Marys Police) and Twitter (@MPSStMarysRY) for those of you on social media where we will be providing updates on what's happening on the ward and what the team are up to.

Kind Regards

PC Sophie Scott

4491SE

DWO - St Mary's & St James' Safer Neighbourhood Team

Marlowe House

Sidcup

0208 721 2816
